(machinery grinding)
Uh-oh. Oh, oh. Uh-oh.
Ooh, you know what
this reminds me of?
Another one of your dumb dreams?
No, no, that-that space movie.
Jack, now is not the time for
a star Wars cl lscusslon .
Oh, I beg to differ.
Now is the perfect time,
'cause I think we can get
out of it the same way.
Hey, are you picking up what
I'm putting down there, Artoo?
I've asked you
not to call me that.
Good news: the general's men
don't seem to know
where you are,
which means the t_rash
compactor's on a tlmer.
So if you could stop it, that...
See, I told you this was
the perfect hiding spot.
(wood cracks)
This is definitely a
terrible hiding spot, Jack.
Riley, can you
hack the controls?
(beeping)
No.
Pretty much everything in this
place predates the transistor.
Only three guards.
We could try to take them out,
Threepio, you're gonna
get yourself shot in the face.
The droid that does
nothing but complain?
Hey, you know what,
if Artoo can't figure this out,
I'm just gonna do
what Han did, hmm?
Yeah, good old Dr. Jones.
Yeah, well, sorry, Solo,
it didn't work in the movie,
it's not gonna work here.
Why not?
The compressive strength
of that pipe is
500 megapascals.
From hitting that wall
and putting us in between.
You know what, I was wrong, Mac.
You're Threepio.
Stop telling me the odds and
tell me how we're gonna escape.
_ I_can't leave
a stinking corpse, man.
See those rivets?
There should be a hydraulic line
just on the other side
of that.
So if we can puncture that,
it would stop this thing,
if it works.
What if it doesn't work?
Then we get crushed to death.
Yeah, yeah, do it, do it.
For the compressive force
to overcom_e
the puncture resistance,
we're gonna have to hold
the pipe perfectly normal
to the walls, okay?
Dude, nothing about this
is normal.
Yeah, something should go boom
on the far side of the complex.
Make it go boom fast,
'cause if this doesn't work,
then Jack and I are gonna be...
inseparable.
I know, I know.
(clanking)
(metal groaning)
Keep it steady! Steady!
(shouts)
(whimpering)
Are you okay?
Is it broken?
I can't think straight
right now. (panting)
I thought these things
were smelly on the outside.
(explosion)
It wprked.
Quickly.
They're on the move.
That was a topically
relevant Obi-Wan quote.
Thanks, Jack. So does that mean
I get to be Obi-Wan?
No, definitely not. No.
No, definitely not.
MATFY: You got out alive,
and you managed to recover
the stolen data tapes,
butJackis
in the infirmary with an axial
fracture to his left radius.
So what went wrong?
This one's on me.
I was_ so focused
on stopping that motor,
I-I used a technical term
Jack didn't know.
"Hold the pipe
perfectly normal"?
Yeah, I was listening.
Uh, what's so weird
about "normal"?
In physics, it means
"perpendicular."
Well, there's no guarantee
that Jack would know
what the word "perpendicular"
meant either.
(sighs) Look, normally--
like normal-normal,
not physics normal--
I can translate technical terms
lnto Jack-speak,
and I didn't this time.
His injury's my fault.
That the two of you jumped
into the jaws of death?
Look, I love Jack
_ as_much as...
It's p0sslble to love Jack.
And he's one of the best
operatives I've ever met,
but when mistakes like this
nearly get agents killed,
it's my job to ask
if this is the right fit.
Maybe you need a partner
that can speak your language.
(phone vibrating)
Frankie?
Who's Frankie?
Friend of Mac's
from MIT.
A close one.
Yeah. What, uh...
what h... what happened?
Uh...
No, of course
I'll be there, yeah.
Send me the...
Thanks.
What's going on, Mac?
Is Frankie o...
There was an accident.
She's, uh...
she's dead.
Mac...
I'm sorry, man.
Yeah.
(sighs) _
There's a mem0rlal In Boston.
I was wondering if I could...
Go. We'll deal
with all this later.
(jet engine roaring)
(tires screech)
(woman speaking indistinctly
over P.A.)
Suit's a nice touch.
You sure? You know, I was...
I was worried
it was a little over-the-top,
but I look good.
No, no. Over-the-top
would have been
using the Phoenix jet to
get to Boston before me,
renting this car, and then
meeting me here with that sign.
The hat and the gloves
are just the cherry on top
of a banana split
of weird decisions.
Bozer called me
and told me what happened.
And, sure, I'm missing
mandatory rehab for my arm,
but I wanted
to be here for you, man.
Here you go, sir!
It's a well-known fact that
people who slt up front
don't tip as well.
So I have that
to look forward to.
Hey, Riles, with, uh, Mac
and Jack out for the day,
I thought maybe you could
give me a little tutorial on...
(chuckles)
(phone vibrates)
Am I catching you at a bad time?
Oh. No.
No, meet me in the lab in five.
I'll teach you
whatever you want to know.
What is it you want to know?
(phone vibrates)
So, how is Hawaii Boy?
He's great.
And his name is Kalei.
Well, tell him Ka-hey for me.
Will do.
(chuckles)
You still have
a thing for her, huh?
Who says I have a thing for her?
Who doesn't?
So? Do we ha\_/e
a rule against It?
No.
But, Bozer, there's
no "it" here.
I mean, you see
that, right?
It's time to move
on. Seriously.
Boss, with all due respect--
and I mean this sincerely--
will you please
mind your own business?
When it's on my dime,
it is my business.
So suck it up.
Open a Tinder account.
Get over it.
What's she know about Tinder?
(scoffs quietly)
Shouldn't I be driving?
Are you kidding me?
My arm may be
all busted up,
but whatever's going on
in that head of yours
has no business
behind the wheel.
And I'm really sorry
about the loss of your friend.
What was her name? Frankie?
Yeah.
And what happened,
exactly?
There was a fire in her lab.
Just one of those things,
I guess.
You loved her,
didn't you?
Hmm?
No.
It wasn't like that.
She was five years older,
and she had a boyfriend.
Is that what you wanted to hear?
(chuckles)
Besides, she was...
way out of my league.
Out of your league?
What, she was that gorgeous?
No. Well, yeah.
Yeah, she was, but...
it wasn't her looks.
It was her brains
that put her out of my league.
Oh, so you're telling me
that she was smarter than you?
Yeah.
Hmm. Yeah, I don't believe that.
Oh, believe it.
Mm.
Frankie was a double major
in mechanical engineering
and biology.
She was an expert in DNA.
She made me look like...
(sighs)
Well...
she made me look like you--
no offense.
_ None taken. _
You wlsh you could look llke me.
I've never heard you talk
about anybody like this before.
Yeah. Frankie was...
(chuckles softly)
...one of a kind.
You know, a lot of kids,
they go to MIT and they think
that they're gonna change
the world, but...
Frankie...
she actually c0uld've clone it.
MAN:
Words seem inadequate
to express the loss
of such a...
gifted and giving scientist.
Rosalind Franklin Mallory--
(chuckles) Frankie,
to those of us
who knew her well--
wasn't just the smartest
person in any room.
She was also the kindest.
I was fortqnqte to have been
the principal sponsor
for Frankie's
recent work,
work that I hope will
continue someday, somehow,
which is why I'm establishing
a scholarship...
(quietly): _
What are you making?
It's called a Mobius strip.
It's a three-dimensional object
with only one side.
Frankie used to love
these things.
MAN: ...look to the future,
searching for solutions
to mankind's
biggest problems.
Mac.
Thanks for coming.
Of course, Smitty.
Thanks for letting me know.
How are her folks doing?
Pretty torn up.
Hell, we all are.
First Dr. V, now this.
Dr. Vanketesh?
What happened?
Oh, you don't know?
His c_ar went off the road
In a snowstorm.
There was a tree.
He was into a coma
and never came out.
Excuse me, fellas.
(clears throat)
Who the hell
takes candid photos
at a funeral?
(camera clicks)
Catch up with you later, Smitty.
Yeah.
Hey.
Can I talk to you?
Hey, there, sneaky Pete.
You missed my good side.
(screams)
Are you all right?
(pants) He dropped his
phone, so yeah, I'm fine.
Get him, Mac!
Ow! (panting)
he knows the campus
better than I do now.
He disappeared into thin air.
You get into his phone?
Yeah, man,
it's definitely a burner.
This guy has shots
of pretty much everyone
at the service.
Question is: why?
While we're asking questions,
though, I got one of my own.
Why did Frankie's
faculty advisor
die in a car crash a month
before she died in a fire?
Do what?
Yeah.
And then there's this.
Why would he be taking pictures
of Frankie's burnt out lab?
JACK:
According to the arson reports,
in an unidentified electrical
box located on the south wall.
Which ignited
lab chemicals
that were used
as the accelerant
that caused the explosion.
The victim's re...
Remains?
Keep reading.
It's fine.
The victim's...
remains were found five
feet from the south wall.
It's presumed she was knocked
over by the initial blast.
Uh, resulting gases then
caused a flashover
that burned hot enough
to consume the lab equipment
and the... victim's body.
No.
Hey, Mac, I know this has
got to be hard for you.
We can get a fire team
come in here again...
That's not what I meant.
"No" as in
that's not what happened.
Now what are you doing? What I was trained
to do: find the heart of the bomb.
Come on, Mac.
You really think it was a bomb?
I've seen enough bomb sites to
know when I'm standing in one.
Fair enough.
South wall, five feet.
This device is
where the fire started.
It's a piece of lab equipment
called a spectrometer.
Only they don't build them
with detonators.
You're right.
This was no accident.
MATTY: _ So, I guess your axlal
fracture's all healed, then,
right, Jack?
Because I know
that you wouldn't miss
Phoenix-mandated rehab
to take an unsanctioned trip
back East
unless you were
fully recovered.
Arm's great. Never better.
Really?
Let me see you do a push-up.
All right.
Look, Matty,
we bpth know Jack's arm
isn't any better.
I know this isn't
official Phoenix business,
but I also know that Frankie's
death wasn't an accident.
But, Mac, Frankie was doing
post-grad work.
Why would somebody
want to murder her?
I don't know, Boze.
JACK:
Riley, you get anything
off that burner phone?
Yep, got it. Hacked it.
Looks like your paparazzi tried
to e-mail this pic of Jack
before you got his phone.
BOZER_: _
To who? Frankie's killer?
RILEY:
I don't know.
Message didn't go through.
Which means
I can't trace the I.P.
I'll see if I can tie
this e-mail address
to a physical location,
but it could take some time.
I need you back here in 48 hours
for another assignment.
48 hours? So we can stay?
Yes. You and the one-armed man
have two days to find
something that will get
Boston PD to reopen
Frankie's case.
Okay.
Thanks, boss.
That was unexpectedly
nice of her.
If investigators
didn't find the detonator,
there must be something else
they overlooked,
something that can help us
find her killer.
Ugh.
Let me guess.
You think I'm jumping at shadows
Hey, relax. I trust
your instincts 100%,
but your brain
can be overly technical.
So let's think about this
from the human angle, okay?
What was the motive?
Bozer's question.
Mm.
Why would someone want Frankie dead?
Yeah.
You got the usual suspects:
stalker, angry neighbor,
jealous ex.
But the fire didn't start
in her house.
It was in her lab.
Okay, so maybe
somebody didn't like
what she was working
on back here.
Do you know what it was?
Uh...
just the general idea.
It was_a new _
DNA sequencing technique.
Even the most severely degraded
blood samples.
She was hoping to identify
infectious diseases
like Ebola before an outbreak.
Okay, well, that's a big deal.
_ But_ unless the Eb0l_a vir_us
IS going around starting fires,
that's another dead end.
Not necessarily.
That new technique
could be worth a lot of money.
Could put a lot
of medical research companies
out of business.
That's a good point.
This lock look new to you?
Yeah. Yeah, I guess so.
Hey, hey. Looks like
that's not the only new thing
she had installed;
check that out.
Most security cameras
point towards a door.
This one points
towards the street.
Why?
Maybe she was afraid
somebody was watching her.
I doubt that hard drive
survived the fire,
but a lot of these things
are backed up
Riley can get in there,
tap some keys.
Waste of time.
Frankie was way
too paranoid
to leave anything online.
In college, we used to...
Used to what?
Walk away in the middle
of a conversation?
(Jack chuckles)
Come on, let me in on it, buddy.
What are you looking for?
Well, MIT is
extremely competitive.
We pretty much invented
computer hacking,
so to keep people
from "borrowing" your research,
got into the habit of
physically backing up our work
and hiding it.
Okay, wait a minute.
If you're about to tell me
that Frankie figured out a way
to dow_nl0ad her research
lnt0 a plant,
my eyeball's just gonna explode.
Flash drive.
Okay, well,
that makes more sense.
H-How did you know
which plant to check?
Oh, yeah,
because of her symbol.
The Morpheus strip.
Morpheus was the guy
from The Matrix.
Oh. Yeah.
Well, I love that dude.
Okay. Got a bunch
of video files here.
I think this is her...
journal.
So, guess who's got two thumbs
and just used her new technique
to reconstruct a full sequence
from a sample the FBI's lab
could only get
four alleles from?
Yeah.
(chuckles softly)
Yeah, you would've
liked her.
It's her last entry.
Okay, so maybe I'm just...
still freaked out about Dr. V.
And I know this will sound nuts,
but I think I'm being followed.
I'm fairly certain
my lab was broken into.
Nothing was taken,
but, uh, things were moved.
I'm gonna get new locks
installed and a camera.
So, if you're watching
this video
and something bad
has happened to me,
I-it wasn't an accident.
Someone killed my advisor,
and I think they're trying
to kill me, too.
See, someone was after her.
She knew it.
(phone vibrating)
(sighs)
Hey, Riley.
But I was able to trace
the e-mail address
to the physical location
of its last log in.
I'm sending you coordinates now.
MacGYVER:
This is on campus.
It's in the Tombs.
"The Tombs"?
Yeah, that's not ominous at all.
MacGYVER: Yeah, the Tombs is
what MIT kids called a cluster
We used to sneak into
them all the time.
To do what?
Work on experiments.
Oh. Okay.
The kind the faculty
didn't approve of.
They had a strict policy
on explosions.
If you did college completely
wrong or completely right.
Well, the person
using that e-mail
is hanging out in these Tombs.
That's where we're going.
JACK: Wait a minute.
So, you're telling me
you used to go in here,
like, on purpose?
Yeah, all the time,
at night.
(chuckles) You know I'm all
about "no man left behind,"
but let's be _clear
on one thlng:
If this place is haunted,
it's every man for himself.
A) I'm faster than you,
so every man for himself
works for me,
and B) When you're
17 years old,
playing mad scientist
with your friends,
this place has
a certain charm.
All right. (sighs)
Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa.
Look, somebody
rigged the door.
You're right.
Trip wire
leading to a cell phone.
Rigged to let
whoever's down here
know they've got company.
The detonator you found
in Frankie's lab
was pretty makeshift, as well.
You know, this is
starting to look like
your handiwork, dude.
(door creaks, closes)
Whoever made that I
think just made us.
(whispers):
Go.
Where are we going?!
Shortcut!
(grunts)
Let's see who the bastard is
who killed...
Frankie?
Mac.
Oh, I can't wait
to hear this one.
(panting)
Hmm?
(MacGyver chuckles)
Whoa.
(chuckles):
I am getting a real
"separated at birth"
kind of vibe here.
Are you sure
your last name's not MacGyver?
Please. Mac wishes he had my
flair for interior design.
And I know it's not much,
but IKEA doesn't exactly have
a "hiding out after faking
your own death" aisle,
so I had to make do.
(chuckles) Well, I love
what you've clone with the place.
Thank you.
So, how did you find me?
A pretty decent job
of covering my tracks.
Well, we traced the e-mail
address your photographer friend
tried to send those pics to.
I st_ill c_:an't believe _
you invited paparazzi
to crash your memorial.
Man, I'm stealing that one.
A) It's "paparazzo,"
B) I thought whoever wanted me
dead might show their face.
I couldn't exactly go
to my own funeral.
Oh, you have the phone?
Uh, yeah.
Your parents were, uh...
No, I had to keep them
in the dark to keep them safe.
Or my would-be killer could've
used them to get to me, so...
Richard Sang gave my eulogy?
(chuckles)
Wow.
Smitty actually wore a tie.
(laughs):
I know.
Now I wish I would've gone.
Yeah, I mean...
coworkers, family, friends--
I don't see anyone I don't know,
and none of these people
wanted me dead.
JACK: Okay, well, any
idea why your death
would be on someone's
to-do llst?
Maybe.
Mac, do you remember
my thesis project?
"DNA Reconstruction
via RNA-Guided CRISPR-Cas9
and Pattern-Matching
Algorithms"?
You made me proof
948 pages six times.
So, yeah,
it kind of rings a bell.
Just, um, explain it to someone
who maybe flunked math,
biology and chemistry.
All three?
Okay, uh...
well, um...
think of it like this:
you remember Humpty Dumpty?
Yeah.
My technique can put his DNA
back together again.
See, Dr. V and I were trying
to find a way to sequence
viral genomes.
We ended up failing at that but
stumbled into a breakthrough.
A _method for
recovering full genomes
from even
badly-degraded DNA.
So we did what anyone
would've done...
You know what I would've clone?
I would've taken
DNA from a frog and
put it into a T. rex,
like a little mini
Jurassic Park,
you know what I--
You didn't do
that, did you?
Uh, no, not exactly.
Okay.
We asked the cops
for blood samples.
Uh, closed cases, so we could...
Create a control group to see if
your technique actually worked.
And it did.
The results were incredible.
We were able to sequence it
with a 94% accuracy.
So Boston PD upped the ante.
They sent us a cold case.
Sample... Ah.
A35-B42-1707. Yeah.
Cops knew this blood
was the killer's,
but all current methods
of DNA testing
had failed to sequence it.
But your method could.
So this is all happening
because your research
put you on the trail
of a killer.
And let me guess:
right when you were
about to I.D. him,
your little lab went kaboom.
I didn't go ka boom with it.
Mm .
Actually, that night,
I woke up from a dream
about a single-n_ucleotide
polymorphism,
so I ran to my lab to adjust
the spectrometer settings,
stumbled onto the device someone
planted, quickly did the math.
So if the person
who had planted the bomb
knew that you survived
the first attempt,
then they would try again.
Yeah, and my odds
were against me
that I'd stumble into it the
next try before it killed me.
So, I whipped up an accelerant
to, uh, make the fire
burn hot enough
to sel_l a crime scene
with no body.
I thought if I could
get away clean
with the blood samples,
I'd have a chance
to regroup and figure out
who's after me.
Or whoever sample A35-B42-1707
belonged to.
It sounds to me like Mr... A35
has the cops on his payroll.
How else would he even know
Frankie was about to I.D. him?
You don't still have
the blood sample, do you?
For all the good it'll do us
without sequencing equipment.
Oh, I think we can handle that.
Yeah, we got all that stuff.
Uh, that's sweet,
but I'm not sure what two guys
from a think tank can do.
Well, to be fair, it's
one hell of a think tank.
Okay, so we did
some digging
and we found the Boston PD
case file that sample
A35-B42-1707 was pulled from.
Sending it to you now.
Victim's name_was
Ronald Manning,
reporter from Southie
found shot to death
in his backyard.
Police found signs that
he struggled with his killer,
underneath his fingernails,
but the body was outside
for a week and it
had rained, so...
Yeah, blah, blah, blah, boring.
Boring C5! mumbo jumbo.
Bottom line, whoever offed
Ronnie is now trying
to take out Frankie
to cover his tracks.
So who knew you were working
with Boston PD, Frankie?
Lot of people.
My advisor, my department head,
two dozen grad students
and post-docs.
It's npt like
what I was dolng was secret.
Okay, so we just
use Frankie's technique
to rebuild the DNA,
run the results through CODIS,
and then...
cross our fingers for a match.
Hey, uh, try to keep up,
boy genius.
My lab was incinerated,
remember?
But_I've never bee_n one to let
a little arson get In my way.
FRANKIE:
Never took this long before.
(door rattling)
MacGYVER:
Yeah, well, it's a new lock.
This tumbler has eight pins,
so it takes a little...
"J0ngen
Wow.
This brings
back memories.
It's like being
in a time machine, huh?
Yeah. This was my home away
from home when I was enrolled.
Oh, that's funny.
You know, my home away from home
was this bar in college
called Slappy's.
I called it Sl0ppy's, but...
Yeah, uh, I think we can guess
why you called it that, Jack.
Yeah, it's 'pause I got
pretty sloppy In there, yeah.
Okay.
First step is extracting
the viable DNA
from the blood sample.
Okay, what tubes are we using?
Uh, one-point-fives.
We'll need, uh...
One for the sample and one
to balance the centrifuge.
I do remember
some stuff.
So...
once we separate the
cells from the serum...
We'll need to extra_ct
as much clot as possible,
then prep for
electrophoresis.
See, the secret
behind the technique
Dr. V and I stumbled
into is the gel
we run through the capillaries.
Mm.
It's a... original recipe.
Okay, I think I'm gonna let
you two nerds get your flirt on,
check the perimeter.
Enjoy yourselves.
Glad to see you can
still identify a 1.5.
After all that time
you made me your lab lackey,
Barely had time
to do my own research.
Oh, are you kidding?
You were looking for
an excuse not to work.
You said you had to
"let your research breathe."
(chuckles)
Here. Last one's
for you.
Ready to get your life back?
(exhales)
Kind of crazy to be
working with you again.
It's kind of like I never left.
Yeah, but you did.
Dropped out without a word
of explanation.
Enlisted in the...
Army, I heard?
(ringtone plays) _
Yeah, what's shaking, Threepl0?
BOZER:
I thought we both agreed
Mac was Threepio.
Clearly, I'm Boba Fett.
Boba Fett?
Boba Fett was a badass, man.
He was, like, the best
bounty hunter in the galaxy.
And, just for saying that,
you're more like that
fat, worthless one-- Jabba.
This is what I get for calling you.
Ancl about that--
you always call Mac
when you need something.
What are you calling me for?
What do you want?
Okay, fine, fine,
you got me, Jack.
I'm calling about Riley.
Why? Is she okay?
She's fine, I'm not.
Ever since Hawaii,
Captain Aloha's
been blowing up
her phone nonstop.
And she's all giggles
and smiles and...
I need your help, man.
I mean, I'm stuck in
the friend zone, and I don't...
You're stuck in the friend zone?
Okay, couple things.
First of all, "stuck" implies
that you deserve
to be in some other
type of zone.
And that ain't up to you, man,
that's up to her.
That's always up to the girl,
you should know that. Second...
Okay, but what I'm...
Hey, don't interrupt.
I'm not done.
Second, anybody who can
call Riley Davis a close,
personal friend is lucky.
She's a good person, man.
And third, if you don't
start taking no for an answer,
I'm gonna go all Wookiee on you
and rip your...
arms off.
Got to go, Jabba.
Good talk, man.
(tires screeching)
Time to pack up the science
fair. We go company. Let's go.
What? Why? The centrifuge
hasn't started spinning.
We still need to separate
the serum...
Hey, we're about to have
our serum separated.
How many? Only six. But they got guns, man.
Let's bounce.
Guns?
Yeah, those things
that'll kill you.
Yeah, yeah. Let's go.
Come on, we need to go.
Mac...
Look, I already lost you once.
I'm not gonna let you die again.
Let's pack up, let's go.
Yeah.
(elevator bell clings)
If this is all they want, maybe
we just give it to them, huh?
Maybe they'll go away.
Yeah, Frankie,
I'm pretty sure a six-man
private security team
is here to make you go away.
Hey, you know what it is?
_ It's time to see _
Just how good Uncle Jack ls
with just his right hook.
No, no, no, no. I got an idea,
I think. Just hold on.
What are you making? It's an electric whip.
Watch out for the end.
(laughs):
Oh! Yes, yes.
Hey, you-you know,
back in Texas,
I was, uh...
Junior whip-cracking champion?
Yeah.
Three years running?
I know.
JACK: Yeah, well,
she doesn't.
Who says I was talking to you anyway, man?
Guys, they're coming.
Yeah, watch out.
(electricity crackling)
(men grunting)
That was awesome.
Come on, there's
gonna be more coming.
Mac, what the hell
have you been doing
since you dropped out of school?
(panting) Come on, come on.
I'm having trouble
wrapping my head around this.
Boy genius is a spy now?
Between the two of us, I think
I should be more freaked out,
since up until four hours ago,
I thought you were dead.
(phone chiming, vibrating)
Hey, Riley.
Take all the wireless chips
out of Frankie's laptop now.
Right now.
Whoever's after Frankie
hid spyware on her hard drive.
As soon as
she connected to Wi-Fi,
it sent out her GPS coordinates.
That's how they found us.
Riley, is there any way you can
trace this back to the killer?
I'm trying, but so far, no luck.
If they know I'm still alive
and they can't find me, they're
gonna go after my parents.
I need to just get them
in the car and leave town.
No, no, no. These guys are not
gonna stop until they find you.
And besides,
if you leave now,
Oh, my work? Yeah, who cares about my work?
I do. Frankie,
everything we used to talk about
you're actually doing now.
I can't just let you walk away from it.
Mac, this isn't about you.
No, you're right.
It's not about me.
It's about you and what
you're doing for the world.
Hey, stop. Look at me.
Yesterday, I thought
that you were dead,
and if you walk away now, if
you just run... you kind of are.
So... please just let me
help you get your life back.
How, Mac? Our only hope
of finding the killer
They blew up my lab, and we
can't go back to the one at MIT.
Do you remember
Dr. V's favorite saying?
"'Imp0ssible' is not
a scientific term."
So, if the only thing
we don't have is a lab...
we'll just have to make one.
I get knocked down,
but I get up again
You're never gonna
keep me down
I get knocked down,
but I get up again...
Kegger at-at Smitty's
tonight, 11:00 p.m.
Hey, we're making
moonshine.
Pass it on.
Tell all your nerd buddies.
$0 [got almost everything
on your list, um,
I think,
except for, uh,
"Cas9 Nuclease 1 nmol."
M-Mol?
Y'all still need that?
Only if we want it to work.
Okay, so that's a "yes,"
smart-ass.
Also, you wrote
"powdered gelatin."
You mean, like, Jell-O?
Yeah, we need it
for electrophoresis.
Okay, yeah, that's... that's
what I thought. All right.
Oh, unflavored gelatin
only, Jack.
Frankie _has _
a very specific recipe,
so Jell-O won't work.
So... no cherry-flavored?
Can I ask you something?
I know it doesn't look like
much, but it's gonna...
No, it's not about that.
It's about you.
You were one of
the smartest guys here.
You want to know why I left?
I'm not saying that
you chose the wrong path.
It's just... not the one
I would have seen you taking.
Me, either... honestly.
But...
I was walking
across campus one clay,
trying to visualize
a nine-dimensional polytope,
when my grandfather called.
And one of his old
war buddies died.
The guy who saved
his life, actually.
And...
...it made me_ r_ealize
that whlle I'm sitting here
trying to solve
theoretical problems,
soldiers were facing real ones.
Real problems
that I could solve.
I mean, I loved it here.
I did.
Being around people like us.
It's amazing.
But...
everything we did was so...
abstract.
And I just needed something
a little more hands-on,
and enlisted,
and before I knew it,
I was diffusing IEDs
in Afghanistan.
Did you just make a centrifuge
out of cardboard?
Oh, is that what I just did?
It'll spin at 20,000 RPMs,
enough to separate your
blood sample for sequencing.
No match.
Try the foreign
DNA database.
(computer trilling)
No match.
Are you trying
to tell me
I just stole all
that lab equipment
for nothing?
Maybe not nothing.
Those databases-- they only
check for 13 genetic markers,
but we_ have the killer's
entire sequence.
There has to be something
we can do
with all that extra information.
Well, there's
phenotype prediction.
With a full human genome, you
can determine sex, age, skin,
hair, eye color
and facial structure.
You can even tell
if they have freckles.
So even though we can't find
the killer in every database,
we can sketch
what he looks like?
Yeah.
BOZER: Actually,
if you send me that info,
I think I can do you one better.
_("Supe_rfly" by
Cums MaYfleld playing)
Darkest of night
with the moon shining bright
There's a set going strong,
lot of things going on
The man of the hour
has an air of great power
The dudes have envied him
for so long
Oh, Superfly
You're gonna make your fortune
by and by
But if you lose,
don't ask no questions why
The only game
you know is Do or Die...
I'm still working
on the hair,
but if the age and facial
structure you gave me is right,
then this...
is the face of our killer.
Oh, my God.
Am I crazy, or isn't that the
same dude who gave your eulogy?
You're not crazy.
It's Richard Sang.
Okay. Who's Richard Sang?
Just one of the most
powerful men in Boston.
JACK: And apparently,
one of the most dangerous.
SANG: And it is my great honor
to dedicate this new facility.
Despite recent tragic setbacks,
the future of scientific
research at MIT is bright.
JACK:
$0, the same dude
who fronted your research
is the same dude
you almost busted for murder?
(phone chimes)
(sighs) What are
the odds of that?
Sang is one of MIT's
most generous benefactors.
I can't believe he'd
do something like this.
Believe it.
Riley found proof
the reporter Sang murdered
was about to expose him
for massive fraud.
Yeah, but we're gonna need
more than hacked e-mails
and one of B0zer's creepy
clay heads to nail this guy.
If I could get a
sample of his DNA,
I could provide a conclusive match.
Okay.
So we need a strand of hair,
a glass he drank from or what?
Unfortunately, my technique
only works on blood.
That's okay. Drawing blood's
my specialty, sweetheart.
(cameras clicking)
FRANKIE:
Mr. Sang?
Will this facility continue
developing the, uh,
Vanketesh-Mallory DNA
sequencing technique?
Or did you think that avenue of
research was pretty much dead?
Frankie. My God, you're...
Oh, very much so... no thanks to you.
What? I don't...
Mr. Sang, we should talk.
Come with us.
Hey, Dick!
(groaning)
Actually, I think campus police
can take it from here.
Oh, great. Officers,
I'd like to confess
to an assault via sucker punch.
I don't suppose either one
of you rent-a-cops has
an evidence bag on you, do you?
Ha-ha!
Hungry like the wolf, son.
(laughs, groans)
(laughs)
The blood on
Jack's ring is
a 13-point match
to the killer.
MATFY: Sang is being taken
into custody as we speak.
And I had a chat
with the local FBI.
He's not gonna buy his way
out of this one.
BOZER:
So, they're gonna need this
for evidence, or whatever?
'Cause I worked
really hard on it.
And thanks, everyone,
for helping us out.
And you did it
with six hours to spare.
So get your butts back on
a plane and get home now.
Both of you.
Jack, you think you can con
your way into the French embassy
with that sling on your arm?
(French accent): But
of course, mon ami.
Arrivederci.
Okay, that's Italian.
Whatever.
Little love.
Ah.
(chuckles)
Well, boy genius,
any chance I could
convince you to stay?
Honestly, Frankie, there's
a part of me that wants to.
And then there's
that other part, yeah.
Yeah.
But, hey, if
you hit a snag,
if you want to
brainstorm ideas...
Mm.
...or if you just want to
tell me how you're doing.
I think we're smart enough
to, uh, figure out
how to use a telephone.
Or build one.
(phone vibrates)
Hey, Riley.
I'm, uh...
I'm sorry.
For what?
For, you know,
not taking any
of the one billion hints
you've been dropping.
And for making things weird
about Captain Aloha.
I mean... Kalei.
I let my hopes
about what we could be...
blind me to what we are.
And what we are
i$--- pretty great.
Are you saying you're finally
ready to be my friend?
Then could we please
grab a burger
and talk about
Resident Evil 7?
Absolutely. On one condition.
Can you give me some advice?
'Cause, uh, I've been
thinking about my game,
and it could probably use
some tweaks.
Yeah. Little tweaks.
Yeah.
All right. So, when
it come to women...
You know I've been thinking,
maybe Frankie was right, man.
Maybe you should stay here.
Jack.
No, I'm not kidding.
I mean, Frankie and you
are both so smart and in sync,
I'm starting to feel
like the dumb one.
You're not the dumb one.
Yes, I am, and you know it.
And you really are
a genius, man.
I'm just thinking
maybe you belong
with your own kind,
you know, the nerds.
Are you trymg to White Fang me?
No.
Harry and the Hendersons.
You remember when John Lithgow,
even though he loved
that sasquatch, man,
he punched him right in the face
to convince him
to move back to the woods
and_ live with the other
Bigfoot creatures?
Look, I don't want to work
at a lab at MIT, okay?
(inhales sharply) I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
(sighs) I want to
work with you.
Is that what you
wanted to hear?
Oh.
You know, for a tough guy,
you sure do get emotional easy.
That doesn't mean I won't whup
that ass for calling me a sissy.
Uh, it's not even what I said.
That's what I heard.
Well, you should
get your ears checked,
'cause your arm's not the
only thing that's broken.
Your face is broken.
MacGWER:
Now that's dumb.
Captioning sponsored by
CBS
Captioned by Media Access
Group at WGBH access.wgbh.org